[Music]
greetings fellow earth dwellers
Brightside speaking and i it's long time
anchor and mammal present you with our
yearly space news digest in today's
broadcast we'll talk about the moon
being within Earth's atmosphere the
biggest space blast since the Big Bang
and much more stay tuned okay enough of
the news tease let's get this puppy
going galaxies consume each other in
space larger galaxies eat smaller ones
and grow in size recent research has
shown that our Milky Way ate at least
five other galaxies when it was younger
such an appetite the biggest explosion
since the Big Bang was registered last
year this happened in the au fuchsias
cluster which unites thousands of
galaxies according to scientists the
blast was equal to 20 billion billion
that's 18 zeros Megaton explosions
happening once a millisecond for 240
million years okay no way I can get my
head around that a little footnote the
speed of light is 186,000 miles per
second if we travel at this speed for 12
months this distance will be equal to
one light year so that explosion
occurred at a distance of 390 million
light years needless to say we're safe
for now
the earth had two satellites for a short
while the moon and its little buddy
unfortunately you couldn't see it in the
sky without equipment the second moon
was a small asteroid about 6 to 10 feet
across this baby has been flying past
earth and was captured by the gravity of
our planet about three years ago and
made one circle around the earth and 47
days it was spotted in February and has
now gone the moon is not just an earth
satellite it's almost in the center of
the atmosphere of our planet
it was previously thought that the
atmosphere ended at an altitude of
62,000 miles but according to recently
Church it's radius is almost three
hundred ninety thousand miles and the
moon is just two hundred thirty thousand
miles away well well Earth had two moons
for some time there's a planet with
almost a hundred of them yep Saturn has
a real satellite party with 82 moons
floating around it by the way
moon doesn't fall on earth because of
gravity technically it falls but does so
endlessly it's spinning around earth
just like the ISS does yeah the
International Space Station isn't
floating in space it's in constant
motion
20:19 was also marked by launching a
space sailboat an ordinary water
sailboat moves with the help of wind and
a space one uses the light particles of
light collide with a reflecting surface
of the space sailboat and push it
this means that sail driven satellites
can transport payloads in space forever
this is a potential way for us to travel
to the Stars without using fuel well the
movies didn't lie to us it's possible to
cultivate plants and crops on Mars and
the moon surfaces scientists recreated
Martian and lunar soil conditions on
earth and planted 10 different crops
nine of them sprouted
there were even potatoes among them just
don't run out of ketchup Mars was
considered an unliving planet for a long
time because there was no geological
activity on it but observations from the
last year recorded hundreds of tremors
on the one hand it opens up new horizons
for exploring the red planet and on the
other Mars quakes aren't something you'd
want to encounter during colonization
throughout the entire history of space
observation only two objects from
another star system or maybe even
another galaxy have entered our solar
system the first one was Oh mwah mwah
Astro
discovered in 2017 ii was Boris off a
comet found in August last year a cloud
of dust that surrounds it allow
scientists to learn more about
substances that may have come to us from
another galaxy who at a distance of 640
light-years from the Sun scientists
discovered planet Wasp 7:6 B where it
rains iron the planet is very close to
its Sun and always turned to it with the
same side the temperature on the sunny
side is so high that metals melt and
evaporate there the other half of the
planet is cool enough so that metals
condense again and fall down as rain
well how cool is that an unusual
teardrop shaped star was found it has
almost twice the mass of the Sun and
looks like a big drop of lava because of
the dwarf star hanging out nearby the
little buddy attracts the energy of its
big brother and distorts its surface at
a distance of 110 light-years from us
planet K 218 B sounds like it was named
after a prisoner in jail somewhere seems
to have water the temperature on it also
allows for the presence of life it's
twice the size of Earth but is too far
away to launch a probe astronomers and
engineers are now working on a new
generation of space telescopes and soon
they'll be able to study this planet in
more detail now until recently we
thought our galaxy look like a circular
spiral but recent research has shown
that it looks more like a Pringles chip
scientists measured the distance between
the Sun and other stars and created a
three-dimensional map of the Milky Way
based on this data it turned out that
our galaxy is slightly curved at the
edges and takes an S shape
understandably the milky way now has a
chip on its shoulder over it the
universe is expanding nine times faster
than we previously thought so maybe it's
a little younger only twelve point five
billion years old but most interesting
of all is that there seem to be stars
older than the universe this might be
proof that not only the Big Bang is
expanding the universe unusual bacteria
live in the ISS two new types of them
were found inside the water dispenser
but don't worry this is not the
beginning of a horror movie these
bacteria are pretty harmless except
they're getting a free ride on the space
station at taxpayer expense it was
proved that a planet can orbit a black
hole as it would a star the energy from
the hole would feed such a planet but to
survive in such conditions and not be
pumped inside the event horizon the
planet must orbit very quickly nearly
the speed of light and the black hole
itself must spin at the same speed got
that there's a huge chunk of metal under
the surface of the Moon it lies about
180 miles deep and is five times the
size of the Big Island of Hawaii the
reasons for this anomaly are still being
studied but perhaps a space pineapple
plantation on the moon is a possibility
no not really
any star will sooner or later turn into
a white dwarf with our Sun being no
exception
first it will explode and then cool down
normally nearby planets don't survive
such explosions but still there's a
newfound planet that orbits a dwarf star
meanwhile a space rock that fell to
earth 30 years ago has given an
unexpected harvest a research team has
found the first known extraterrestrial
protein in it we might be able to walk
upright because of supernova explosions
about 2.5 million years ago a supernova
sent cosmic rays to our planet they
triggered a series of electrical store
in the Earth's atmosphere which turned
into thunderstorms those in their turn
caused wildfires in Northeast Africa
where our earlier ancestors live fire
turned the forest area into a savanna
the atmospheric pressure changed and our
ancestors had to stand on two legs to
survive Voyager 2 a spacecraft launched
in 1977 finally crossed the border of
the solar system in 2018 now it travels
in interstellar space for a long time it
was believed that the universe is
constantly expanding evenly in all
directions but it turned out that the
expansion stops in some places and
continues in others yeah I know what
that feels like a comet called Atlas
discovered in December last year has
become very bright because of
approaching the Sun if it retains its
shape and doesn't collapse it will be
visible to the naked eye by the end of
May it's gonna become so bright that it
will glow green mark your calendars a
really huge galaxy dub XM m25 nine-nine
was found 12 billion light-years away
from Earth the galaxies had quickly
gained mass of more than 300 billion
suns when our universe was just 2
billion years old interestingly this
galaxy also quickly extinguished for
unknown reasons maybe you just got too
big for its britches